h1. Scala wrapper for MongoDB

mongo-scala-driver is a thin wrapper around "mongo-java-driver":http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Java+Language+Center to make working with "MongoDB":http://www.mongodb.org/ more Scala-like.

bq. The first of all, this is a work in progress and implements only a subset of MongoDB features at the moment.

*"Wiki":http://wiki.github.com/alaz/mongo-scala-driver*
*"Mailing list":http://groups.google.com/group/mongodb-scala*

h2. Important changes

h3. Version 0.7.5

* mongo-java-driver 1.4
* OSGi-fied
* Simple Build Tool (SBT) support

Incompatible changes:
* `Preamble` replaced by Scala 2.8 "package object": no need to import `Preamble`s

h3. Version 0.7.4

* mongo-java-driver 1.3 compatibility
* "Map field":http://github.com/alaz/mongo-scala-driver/issues/closed#issue/29

h3. Version 0.7.2

* Modifier operations on object fields (see "MongoDB: Updating":http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/Updating)

h3. Version 0.7.1

* mongo-java-driver 1.2 compatibility

h3. Version 0.7

The major goal of 0.7 is to cover whole set of MongoDB's document data types. The release introduces arrays and references as well as consistent architecture to combine Mongo data types along with Scala models to represent:

* complex objects inside a document
* `Ref[T]` fields, i.e.
** references to objects inside a document
* `Option[T]` fields, i.e.
** optional simple values inside a document
** optional complex objects inside a document
* `Array[T]` fields, i.e.
** arrays of simple values inside a document
** arrays of references inside a document

The release works out the following issues also:

* mongo-java-driver version 1.1

Some of these changes required a major refactoring of Shape/Field code which led to a number of breaking changes. The following list summarizes most important incompatible changes.

h4. MongoCollection is a PartialFunction

@MongoCollection@ (as well as @ShapedCollection@) are @PartialFunction[ObjectId, T]@ now. This means you can request an object by its ID natually or test for existance.

h4. MongoObject fields are Option's

@MongoObject@ is a trait to mix it into a classes of object you are going to store in MongoDB and it declares a couple of MongoDB related fields: @OID@ and @ns@. Both of these fields are now @Option@, so you will have to modify your code in case you used them

h4. Field descriptor constructors

You used to construct fields in Shapes as objects inheriting @Scalar@ or @Embedded@ classes. These were removed, so you may use either @ScalarField@, @OptionalField@ and @EmbeddedField@ classes to inherit or @Field.scalar@, @Field.optional@ methods:

<pre><code>object SomeShape extends ObjectShape[SomeObj] {
  val idField = Field.scalar("id", _.id) // OR
  object idField extends ScalarField[Int]("id", _.id) with Functional[Int]

  val statusField = Field.optional("status", _.status) // OR
  object statusField extends OptionalField[Int]("status", _.status) // NOTE SomeObj.status method returns Option[Int]
}</code></pre>

h4. ShapeFields

You used to inherit @ShapeFields@ in Shapes of child objects, when constructing complex hierarchies. Now you should inherit @ObjectIn@ instead.